--- 
layout: entry
title: Washington DC
excerpt: Travel log beginning.
category: notebook
tags: [writing,travel]

---
p(preamble). Consider this a test of new "equipment 
(Powerbook 12in.)":http://www.apple.com/powerbook/index12.html and  "offices (Starbucks.)":http://www.starbucks.com/' connectivity. I'm near _Farragut North_ Metro station in Washington DC, a "few blocks away (In a Starbucks.)":http://maps.google.com/maps?q=Washington,+DC+1734+l+street&ll=38.903200,-77.040000&spn=0.022402,0.031757&t=k&hl=en from the White House, which I unexpectedly ran into during my first random walk a few days ago. This city is teeming with law-enforcement personnel and sirens that are too loud. The inhabitants have all been polite and courteous. 

A great weekend was spent with old friends, some of whom I hadn't seen in ten years. Didn't sleep Saturday night; shisha bars, taxis, buses, lots of walking. The highlight was "_Steak and Eggs_ (I like Google maps. Stalk me.)":http://maps.google.com/maps?q=washington+dc,+steak+and+eggs&ll=38.915900,-77.024200&spn=0.005600,0.007939&t=k&hl=en, a 24-hour breakfast joint; french toast, over-easy eggs, bacon and lots of coffee.

Went to _The Mall_ and various "Smithsonian museums (Composed of sixteen museums and galleries, the National Zoo, and numerous research facilities in the United States and abroad.)":http://www.si.edu/. Stayed mainly outdoors where there was good light for photographs. Candids. Designed the "HyperTextHero (Traveling designer.)":http://www.hypertexthero.com business card this morning and had two-hundred copies printed in "_FastCopyandPrinting_ (A print shop owned by Tunisians.)":http://maps.google.com/maps?q=FastCopyandPrinting&sll=38.903200,-77.040000&sspn=0.022402,0.031757&t=k&hl=en a few hours later. The cards are now in my "backpack (Excellent bags and backpacks for laptops and other stuff.)":http://www.tombihn.com, which I'm pleased with.
