--- 
layout: entry
title: For Nationalism
category: imaginarylines
tags: 
- writing

---
"Obama poster designed by Jonathan Hoefler":http://www.typography.com/ask/showBlog.php?blogID=145:

bq. "For as long as I live, I will never forget that in no other country on Earth is my story even possible." —Barack Obama, 2008

Obama along with any other candidate in the flawed election system probably has no choice than to pander to nationalism to get the votes and get elected to power. This is a usual necessity in elections around the world, particularly in the United States.

Unfortunately, I think it will be a long time before the majority of the people on Earth realize that nationalism is an _essential problem_, a "recurring disease":http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Nationalism which must be cured before solutions to various other humans problems can be tackled.

<p>* * *</p>

Comment sent in by 'John' (the commenting system is currently disabled 'till I finish the transfer of Imaginary Lines from its own domain to SimonGriffee.com):

<blockquote>
_30 Dec 2008 20:27:47_

<p>re: pandering to nationalism</p>

<p>I recall something John McCain said in the third presidential debate:</p>

<p>&#8220;Sen. Obama wants to set up health care bureaucracies, take over the health care of America through &#8212; as he said, his object is a single payer system. If you like that, you&#8217;ll love Canada and England.&#8221; </p>

<p>This shows how nationalism, perhaps more specifically &#8216;American exceptionalism&#8217; is a barrier for to change for the better. Here John McCain talks about thriving rich countries (with far better healthcare systems) as if they are from the third world – and he can do this for no other reason than they are not America. For nationalism to exist on this level is stupefying.</p>

<p>John</p>
</blockquote>