--- 
layout: entry
title: Belated Notes About Last Weekend
excerpt: I feel older after last weekend.
category: notebook
tags: 
- writing
- belated
- weekend
- notes
- mo
- age
---
I feel older after last weekend.

Met Mo, who I hadn't seen for 16 years. Good to see that good friends remain good friends, no matter how much time passes between meetings.

It seems Rome is becoming stricter—apparently no drinking on the piazzas is allowed 'until September 20th'. The bar staff have an impossible job enforcing this of course, and reportedly poor bar San Calisto received a hefty fine Friday night.

During the walk on the cobblestones and the ride on bus 25N I thought of another photography project about walking alone at night. I also thought about my dad, and had lunch with him and mom the following day.

I met a wonderful family of photographers in a 50th birthday party and ran into another friend from my high school basketball team in the same. Age: just a number? I've said it before and I still believe it.

Came home at 7am after further drinking, more walking and more photography in the Roman night. The sun was already over the horizon formed by the distant Apennines.

Spent hung-over time by the lake where I met Daniele who gave me four packets of _film_. I must find a Leica IIIf at some point… After dinner we witnessed the denizens of Bracciano's centro storico putting out a blaze in the old moat with buckets and garden hoses. The fire engine[1] arrived howling and, while it parked, somewhat exaggeratedly produced the sound police cars make in the movies when they crash upside down. 

An old man next to me witnessing the fire engine's arrival:

bq. "Eh! Siamo a Bracciano. Fa-le stupidaggine!"

I laughed.

fn1. Most unfortunately I did not capture the sound as I'm still unfamiliar with the "new camera's":http://simongriffee.com/notebook/why-the-ricoh-grd video functionality. Nor could I find something similar-sounding on the internet. I did find "this":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_FLUVSVom3M however, which somewhat captures the spirit.

