--- 
layout: entry
title: Editing
excerpt: Editing
category: notebook
tags: 
- editing
- photo editing
- choosing
- selecting
- culling
---
In photography the word 'editing' traditionally means selecting the best photos from a set. This usually involves a large number of small pictures&nbsp;—&nbsp;'contact' or <a href="http://theonlinephotographer.typepad.com/the_online_photographer/2010/11/how-to-make-a-good-proof-sheet.html" title="How to make a good proof sheet.">'proof' prints</a>&nbsp;—&nbsp;laid out on a table, pinned to a wall, clipped to a string, or displayed in a user interface on a computer screen. The editor looks at the pictures, moves them around, culls the bad ones, keeps the best ones.

 <txp:image id="1022" />

p(caption). <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/entertainment/arts_and_culture/7907632.stm" title="The Americans in the frame - BBC.">Frame 13, Looking In: Robert Frank's "The Americans"</a>

In the digital era the primary meaning of the word 'editing' when applied to the word 'photographs' has unfortunately become _'the manipulation of an image with photo editing software such as Photoshop'_. Traditional _editing_ became 'photo organizing' or 'photo management'. 

"Editing (Editing 101 by Mike Johnston.)":http://www.luminous-landscape.com/columns/sm-10-06.shtml means culling, improving, condensing, simplifying&nbsp;—&nbsp;removing the unnecessary, leaving the best. In this sense, when applied to photographs, and if you want to improve your photography, I think 'editing' is a better word than 'organizing' or 'management', and it should be embraced in its traditional sense. 

Endlessly manipulating a photograph with graphics software will not make it a better photograph or you a better photographer. Taking more pictures, looking at them,[1] and _choosing_ the best, will.

<txp:hide>Software such as Lightroom is primarily a photo organizer. The best know photo organizing websites are Flickr and Picasa.</txp:hide>

Despite much mythology such as Cartier-Bresson's Decisive Moment, the photographic act consists of two things: Shooting pictures and choosing which pictures to show.[2] Most people only do the first, but editing is "at least as important as shooting (Editing Tango by David Alan Harvey.)":http://davidalanharvey.typepad.com/road_trip/2007/09/editing.html. As in many things in life, you have to choose, difficult as it may be.

bq. To be honest, most of my pictures suck. The saving grace of that admission is that most of your pictures suck, too. How could I possibly know such a thing? Because most of everybody's pictures suck, that's how. I've seen Cartier-Bresson's contact sheets, and most of his pictures sucked. One of my teachers said that it was an epiphany for him when he took a class from Garry Winogrand and learned that most of Winogrand's exposures sucked. It's the way it is.

— Mike Johnston, "The Magic Bullet (One of Mike's excellent 'Sunday Morning Photographer' columns.)":http://www.luminous-landscape.com/columns/sm-sept4-05.shtml

*Dear Internet, a request:* We need an online photo editing site _specialized in the traditional editing process of culling a collection of photos_. This site would let you upload a set of pictures, choose the best ones, arrange them in a "sequence (See David Alan Harvey's comments in this post.)":http://davidalanharvey.typepad.com/road_trip/2007/09/one-two-three.html#comments and save a unique URL with the new 'edit' to be sent to others for discussion. It could be built with a web framework such as "Django (For perfectionists with deadlines.)":http://djangoproject.com/ combined with revision control software such as "Git (Fast version control.)":http://git-scm.com/. Please make this, or I may have to!

fn1. Good advice: have prints of pictures you think you like hanging somewhere where you see them often. Pinned to a board on a wall, tacked to a mirror, taped to your monitor, anything. After living with the pictures for some time, you eventually 'see' the ones you really like, and the others fall away.

fn2. A third thing could be 'how to show the pictures': Single print, book, gallery wall space, projection, website, and so on.
<txp:hide>
fn3. Can't find the original, but here is David Alan Harvey's "Quick Pocket Guide to Editing and Your Life in Photography" comment that I saved from somewhere, probably the old "Road Trips blog":http://davidalanharvey.typepad.com/:
"on editing again...there are two things...choice of pictures and choice of how many pictures...generally speaking, most show too many pictures....
you will go crazy asking too many opinions of your work...i remember watching the Pictures of the Year competition being judged (5 "judges") when i was a college student at Missouri...i never wanted anyone's "opinion" about my work from that day forward...i have since been one of those "judges"....that is not any better either...
YOU need to know (just as you need to know when to take the picture in the first place) OR you need a good collaborator....but not 10 collaborators!!
OK, QUICK POCKET GUIDE TO EDITING AND YOUR LIFE IN PHOTOGRAPHY:
first, STUDY the visual classics (painting, sculpture, photography, film)...
READ E.B.White and Japanese haikus...
then GO WITH YOUR GUT, spinning out your own style either revolutionary or tangential...
then YOU CHOOSE 10 pictures...show them...print them well....treat them with respect...
then, FORGET those first 10...
put them in the closet..AVOID falling in love with those first 10 good ones (the downfall of many)....
be HONEST with yourself....look in the mirror and tell the truth to that person...
then, go shoot 10 more!!...etc etc...
if you are a passionate photographer, you will always have 10 more...
if you think you are "done", then you are...
SOMEDAY you can go back and get those first 10 out of the closet!!!! but not yet!!!"
</txp:hide>
