--- 
layout: entry
title: Rapture
excerpt: Rapture
category: notebook
tags: 
- rapture
- anna karenina
- xxIII
- kitty
- vronsky
- writing
---
bq. She had not come close to Anna since her arrival, and here suddenly saw her again in a completely new and unexpected way. She saw in her a streak of the elation of success, which she knew so well herself. She could see that Anna was drunk with the wine of the rapture she inspired. She knew that feeling, knew the signs of it, and she saw them in Anna — saw the tremulous, flashing light in her eyes, the smile of happiness and excitement that involuntarily curved her lips, and the precise gracefulness, assurance and lightness of her movements.

…

bq. 'No, it's not the admiration of the crowd she's drunk with, but the rapture of one man. And that one? can it be him?' Each time he spoke with Anna, her eyes flashed with a joyful light and a smile of happiness curved her red lips. She seemed to be struggling with herself to keep these signs of joy from showing, yet they appeared on her face of themselves. 'But what about him?' Kitty looked at him and was horrified. What portrayed itself so clearly to Kitty in the mirror of Anna's face, she also saw in him. Where was his quiet, firm manner and carefree, calm expression? No, now each time he addressed Anna, he bowed his head slightly, as if wishing to fall down before her, and in his glance there were only obedience and fear. 'I do not want to offend you,' his glance seemed to say each time, 'I want to save myself but do not know how.' There was an expression on his face that she had never seen before.

— Leo Tolstoy, _Anna Karenina, Part One, XXIII_
