--- 
layout: entry
title: First Meeting, Abundance, Expression Beyond Will
excerpt: First Meeting, Abundance, Expression Beyond Will
category: notebook
tags: 
- pp61
- anna karenina
- chapter XVIII
---
bq. <txp:hide>Vronsky followed the conductor to the carriage and at the door to the compartment stopped to allow a lady to leave. With the habitual flair of a worldly man, Vronksky determined from one glance at this lady's appearance that she belonged to high society.</txp:hide>He excused himself and was about to enter the carriage, but felt a need to glance at her once more — not because she was very beautiful, not because of the elegance and modest grace that could be seen in her whole figure, but because there was something especially gentle and tender in the expression of her sweet-looking face as she stepped past him. As he looked back, she also turned her head. Her shining grey eyes, which seemed dark because of their thick lashes, rested amiably and attentively on his face, as if she recognized him, and at once wandered over the approaching crowd as though looking for someone. In that brief glance Vronsky had time to notice the restrained animation that played over her face and fluttered between her shining eyes and the barely noticeable smile that curved her red lips. It was as if a surplus of something so overflowed her being that it expressed itself beyond her will, now in the brightness of her glance, now in her smile. She deliberately extinguished the light in her eyes, but it shone against her will in a barely noticeable smile.

— Leo Tolstoy, _Anna Karenina, Part One, XVIII_
