--- 
layout: entry
title: "Answers &amp; Nominations: ‘The Next Big Thing’"
excerpt: "A week ago, Miss Alashiya Gordes slapped a label that said 'The Next Big Thing' on me, which means answers to ten questions and tag-slapping up to five authors to do the same the following Wednesday."
category: notebook
tags: 
- writing
- the next big thing
- photography
- philosophy
---
A week ago, "Miss Alashiya Gordes":http://starkholborn.com/2012/12/12/next-big-thing-part-ii/ slapped a label that said ‘The Next Big Thing’ on me, which means answers to ten questions[1] and tag-slapping up to five authors to do the same the following Wednesday. One, two, go: 

*1. What is the working title of your next book?*

You and Me.

*2. Where did the idea come from for the book?*

Reading about people. Looking at people. Photographing people.

*3. What genre does your book fall under?*

After a loud crash pieces might scatter under photography, psychology and philosophy.

*4. What actors would you choose to play the part of your characters in a movie rendition?*

Unknown good ones. Fuck the Motion Picture Association of America.

*5. What is the one-sentence synopsis of your book?*

You and me.

*6. Will your book be self-published or represented by an agency?*

Self-published.

*7. How long did it take you to write the first draft of the manuscript?*

Between one week and one year.

*8. What other books would you compare this story to within your genre?*

I don't like comparing my work to other works, it makes me go vvild.

*9. Who or what inspired you to write this book?*

Myself and the people around me.

*10. What else about the book might pique the reader’s interest?*

It'll look nice.

h2. And now I want answers — answers, damn it!! — from the following[2]:

* Anna Sakurai - photographer, philosopher
* Ann-Kristin Rothe - photographer, philosopher
* Doris Rittenschober - photographer, philosopher
* Emelyne Cheney - photographer, philosopher
* "John Ryan Brubaker":http://www.johnryanbrubaker.com/, photographer, philosopher
* Natalia Merkusheva - photographer, philosopher
* Stefano Giaccio - photographer, philosopher

fn1. Need to be re-written, and more fun questions, please!

fn2. Sorry, but I'm nominating seven instead of five since I'm rebel *with* a cause! I'm happy to host responses from those without websites here or point them to easy ways to set up their own site should they wish it.
